#The Basics of Syntax
Here we will go over the basics of the syntax in a C# application.

##Code Blocks
Code blocks in C# are denoted by a pair of curly braces: `{ }`. Each opening curly brace (`{`) needs to have a corresponding closing curly brace (`}`) located somewhere in the code. If no closing curly brace is found, or if you forget one somewhere, the compiler will interpret your code completely differently, and that's probably going to result in many errors. 
In this example, we will be demonstrating a valid block of code:
```csharp
{
	//You can put code here!
}
```
In most languages, code blocks are the basis of the syntax, and are used for practically everything including functions, classes, interfaces, namespaces, arrays and more. A simple code block, such as the one demonstrated above, have some special properties which will become useful later on.

##Semicolons
The other rule that must be followed in programming is the semicolon rule. After each code statement, which I will explain below, a semicolon must be placed, or the compiler will throw a fit. Aside from being a source of memes, the semicolon actually performs a vital role; it acts as a line terminator for the compiler. Without the semicolon, compilers will have a tough time determining where a line ends!
Anyways, here's an example of a semicolon in action:
```csharp
myCodeStatement; //As you can tell, there is a semicolon after my statement!

{
	myOtherCodeStatement; //Also a semicolon
}
```
In that example, you saw how semicolons are used to end statements. Now I bet you're wondering why there are no semicolons after the curly braces, well that's simple. Curly braces are, like semicolons, control operators which give the compiler hints how to treat certain segments of code and they're not considered statements. If you recall, semicolons are only needed after statements, so no semicolons are needed after control characters.

more to be added, im tired
