#Terminology

###Computer
A computer is defined as a device that can perform operations automatically. For the purposes of this tutorial, a computer will only include devices which use electrial pulses to perform these operations. (Sorry no mechanical computers here bud!)

###Bit
A number in the binary number system, can be either a 1 or 0

###Byte
A collection of 8 bits

###High Bit
Represents a value of a bit. A high bit will equal 1. This term originated from electrical related sciences, as voltage and current will never equal a difinitive value

###Low Bit
Also represents a value of a bit. This will always equal 0. Just like the term "High bit," this term originated from electrical related sciences.

###Emulation
Reproduction of a functional system by another software, instead of the actual thing. Think of the gameboy emulators that exist for PC, so you can play your favorite gameboy games without actually needing a gameboy.

###Virtual Machine
An emulation of a computer system. This can allow you to run a computer inside another computer, and perform some other cool operations.

###Implied 
Suggested but not actually expressed, arguably one of the most important words in the field of computing.

###Explicit
Stated and explained clearly in detail, arguably one of the most important words in the field of computing.

###Implicit
Implied but not nessessarily expressed, arguably one of the most important words in the field of computing.

###Machine Code
Code a computer can actually understand. This is comprised of numeric values which the computer can interpret as binary values.

###Byte Code
Similar to machine code, except that it is usually interpreted by something other than the actual computer, like a virtual machine or other software.

###Compiler
This is a piece of software that converts human-readable code, like C#, into either bytecode or machinecode. It acts as a translator between English and computer speak.

###Preprocessor
A part of the compiler which usually edits code to exclude things like comments and other disabled code

###Program
The actual runnable piece of software produced as a result of code compilation

###Library
Also the result of code compilation. Provides functionality and is usable by programs, as it is *not* actually runnable directly.

###Memory
A part of the computer which stores data to be used later. One of the most important parts of the computer, next to the processing unit

###Volatile Memory
Memory that changes very frequently (will explain later)

###Non-Volatile Memory
Memory that doesn't change very frequently (will explain later)

###Processor
The part of the computer where actual computing takes place

###Instruction
A specific instruction for a computer. Think of these instructions as "Move this there" and "Perform this action on these items", however, for the purposes of this tutorial, we will not get too in-depth with this stuff.
