#Introduction

##What is programming?
Programming is the creation of code and software to solve a problem or to fulfill a need involving something related to computing. In other words, programming is essentially typing random stuff into a computer, hoping it works and pretending that what you wrote actually solves a problem. All jokes aside, programming really is just the act of telling what computers to do, using a language that the computer can understand. Contrary to popular thought, programming isn't just constantly writing code all day, every day, it involves a lot of thinking, planning, and usually, debugging. Later in this chapter, we will go over how a computer actually works.

##But what is C#?
C# (CSharp) is a high-level, C-Style, garbage collected, strongly-typed and object oriented programming language released by Microsoft in 2000. C# is also cross platform, uses a bytecode format, compiles quickly and runs using a JIT compiler provided by the .NET framework. If you're new to programming, you probably have no idea what I just wrote, but later, you most certainly will understand what it means.

##Why learn C#?
C# is a good language to first learn due to its simplicity, reusability and because it's widely used across the software industry. Right now you might be thinking C# is complicated and difficult, but, as you will learn later, it's actually a really simple language and you will find it significantly easier than say, C++. Not only that, but it runs blazingly fast for a language of its type. Taking advantage of a JIT (Just-In-Time) compiler and a pre-compiled bytecode, it runs significantly faster than similar languages like Java, which uses a Virtual Machine. Not only that, C# uses very little memory compared to Java AND it takes advantage of an optimizing compiler, meaning it's very difficult to write inefficient code. Overall, C# is an insanely useful language, and it's also a great starting point for the beginning programmer. So that's why you should use it!

##What other languages are there?
In the software world, there are TONS of other languages you could use, most of which are designed to be used for a specific task or group of tasks. For example, C is generally used for embedded systems or APIs that need to work with the hardware, and not really used used in modern applications, which are generally filled with fancy GUIs. Here's a list of programming languages and their niche environment.

|Language|Niche Environment|
|:----:|:-----:|
| Assembly | Used mostly for working directly with hardware, in OS kernels and integrated with other languages to squeeze the best performance out of everything. |
| C | Used primarily in APIs that don't require complex language features (which could add unecessary overhead), but still need to work with the hardware. |
| C++ | Used just like C, except it has many modern language features, and therefore, used often in modern applications such as games |
| Java | Although not that great of a language (Actually *really* bad, don't get me started) used often in applications that require GUIs, portability, and performance that's not that great. Used most often by enterprises (shame on them). |
| C# | You're here! Used most often in modern applications where performance isn't super important, but portability, GUIs and modern language features are extremely important. |
| Python | Simplified language, or rather, has a more simplistic syntax, used primarily in tools programming, where small applications must be created and prototyped quickly, also where performance isn't as critical. |




