#Hexadecimal Number System 
The hexadecimal number system, also known as the base-16 number system, is another number system frequently used by programmers. The hexadecimal number system uses a total of 16 characters to form numeric values. These values are 1-9 and A-F, and can be combined in a variety of ways to form numbers. Hex numbers are often denoted by a `0x` appended to the first part of the number, for example `15` would be the number 15 in decimal, but `0x15` would be 15 in hex, or 21 in decimal.

#Why use hex?
Hex is used primarily because it's easy to represent large numbers with it. For example, in the normal decimal number system, the number 15 would be represented by `15`, but in hex, it would be `0xF`. Similarly, the number `65536` in decimal is equal to `0xFFFF` in hex. It's primarily used because the memory of a computer is usually very large, and the corresponding memory addresses are very large too. Just to give you an example, the largest memory address on a 32bit computer would be `4,294,967,295`, in hex, that would simply be `0xFFFFFFFF`. There are some other useful properties of the hex number system too, mainly how it corresponds to binary. Each value in the hex number system corresponds to 4 binary bits. For example, `0xF` in hex is the same as `1111` in binary. In essence, it allows the programmer to condense large binary numbers down into something significantly smaller.

#Counting in hex
Counting in hex is just like counting in decimal and binary. For reference, here's a table with hex numbers mapped to their decimal counterparts.

| Hex Number | Decimal Number |
|:----------:|:--------------:|
| 0 | 0 |
| 1 | 1 |
| 2 | 2 |
| 3 | 3 |
| 4 | 4 |
| 5 | 5 |
| 6 | 6 |
| 7 | 7 |
| 8 | 8 |
| 9 | 9 |
| A | 10|
| B | 11 |
| C | 12 |
| D | 13 |
| E | 14 |
| F | 15 |

Note: Remember that hex numbers are often denoted by a `0x` preceding the sequence of numbers. For example `0x1` or `0xF` would be hex numbers. However, sometimes they can be denoted by a `h` following the number, so `80h` would also be in hex.


