#The Memory
"Without memory, one is as useless as a rock is edible"
-Me

The memory of a computer is one of the most important things in a computer, without it, a computer can't function, and the processor, at best, can serve as a simple calculator.

#Volatile vs Non-Volatile Memory
For the untrained eye, memory all looks the same, but it's important to know the different types of memory, how they work, when they're used and why they exist. The two main types of memory a computer uses are volatile and non-volatile memory, bother of which are extremely important.

The first type of memory is volatile memory, and is often referred to as RAM (Random Access Memory). This type of memory is temporary storage that is frequently written to and read from, the term volatile is used for this exact reason; it's constantly changing. This type of memory is also usually pretty small in size, sizing in around anywhere from just 4GB all the way up to 128GB, but it's small size is made up by its speed. It has bandwidth up into the hundreds of Gigabytes per second transfer speed, pretty insane compared to non-volatile memory.

The next type of memory we have is called non-volatile memory, known as this because it is less frequently written to. This type of memory often exists as your hard drive on your computer, or as your USB flashdrives. Compared to volatile memory, like RAM, it has the ability to store much more data, and the storage of this type of memory is often measured in the Terra-bytes, or thousands of gigabytes. However, the speed of non-volatile memory is quite lacking. Usually, most HDDs or even SSDs have speeds measured in the MB/s range, much slower than its very volatile counterpart.

For the purposes of this slide, we will talk only about volatile memory.

#Why is RAM used?
RAM stands for Random Access Memory, and is used to store program-specific data for short periods of time when these programs are executing. Because RAM has a high transfer speed, and also because the CPU can easily access it, the binary data of programs are stored in memory, along with the program's own data. If this type of stuff was stored on the HDD or some other type of slow non-volatile memory, it would act as a major bottleneck for the CPU. In essence, RAM is used to prevent bottlenecks for the entire computer.

#Memory Addressing
If all data is stored in memory, how is it accessed? Does the computer just know where it is? Nope! But the solution is simple, using memory addressing. Each byte of RAM in a computer has a corresponding address, this way, data can be moved in and out as well as referenced using this fixed, unchanging value representing a position in memory.

If you recall from earlier, a computer with a 32-bit architecture can only have around 4GB of memory, or around `2^32` bytes of memory. The reason for this involves addressing of each byte in memory. As stated above, each byte of memory must be assigned an address (at least on most systems). Generally speaking, a 32-bit system's control registers are only 32-bits wide, as is the memory and things stored in the memory such as the stack. If you recall from earlier, a register is a small, high speed storage location located on the chip, which come in limited numbers. In order to control the CPU, software must use these registers to pass parameters required by various instructions. More often than not, these registers are used to hold memory addresses that certain instructions require as parameters and, if these registers are only 32-bits wide, they can only hold 32-bit numbers and memory addresses, hence the reason why only 4GB of memory is addressable on 32-bit systems. However, this isn't the only thing restricting the amount of memory that can be addressed, the MMU (Memory Management Unit) on 32-bit systems can only handle 32-bit numbers, also providing a limitation for the number of bytes that can be addressed. Although not related to memory, other components of the CPU such as the ALU are limited to using 32-bit numbers on 32-bit systems.

Please keep in mind that this stuff is *really, really* specific to an architecture. Some may have support for large numbers and others not. For example Intel's x86 architecture with the SIMD and AVX extensions have massive 256-bit registers for floating point processing.

Here's an example of how memory is mapped and how values are stored in it.
Note: The addresses are represented in hex, as they are denoted as such usually.
|Address|Value|
|:-------:|:-----:|
| 0x1   | 200 |
| 0x2   | 102 |
| 0x3   | 'H' |
| 0x4   | 'I' |
| 0x5   | 128 |

Not much to say here, as it's pretty self-explanitory. Each byte of memory, as you can tell, has a value in it which is 8-bits wide, also known as a byte. In order to access a value you've put away for future use, you will need to use the memory address where the value is stored at. Using this, the CPU can determine what to fetch from memory and what to return.

In the previous example, each value in memory was exactly 8-bits in size, but what happens when you want to store a larger value, say a 32-bit number? Simple, the number is distributed accross multiple memory addresses, in consecutive order. Here's an example of storing a 32-bit number in memory. The number we will be using is `123456789`, and it will be denoted in binary as `0000111010110111100110100010101`.

Note: We will be using a big-endian format
|Address|Value|
|:------:|:-----:|
| 0x1 | 00001110 |
| 0x2 | 10110111 |
| 0x3 | 10011010 |
| 0x4 | 00010101 |

In this example, the patter is probably pretty hard to see, but here's what it is. Starting at the address 0x1, we have put the first 8 bits of the number into that address, followed by `0x2` with the next 8bits, `0x3` with the next 8bits and `0x4` with the last 8bits. In essence, we are simply breaking the number up into groups of 8bits and distributing that accross 4 bytes of memory.

#Endianness
Will do later on.


